Thanks everyone for hanging out today,
I know it's been a long day but hopefully,
you found this useful.
As far as next steps go,
there's a whole world of TypeScript out
there that we haven't even began to touch.
Like I said, there are interfaces
that you need to think about.
There are generics and all these other
things that you could do with TypeScript.
But to be honest, my recommendation
when it comes to TypeScript is
similar to my advice when it
comes to learning frameworks.
Which is don't try to learn every single
technique in the world in an attempt to
create the perfect code.
When you have a specific problem that
you have, that's when you reach out and
find a solution for it.
So a great example of that is when I
realized that we had a constant that was
keeping a source of truth for
our diet lists and that kind of stuff.
And then I realized that the TypeScript
was replicating that in the types.
This is when I went out to learn
which admitted again, ODS and
tax but it does solve a problem for
me and that's when I reached out for it.
It's really tempting I think as developers
to try to learn everything at once cuz
you're afraid you'll miss something.
But honestly, I think perfection
is the enemy of progress and
code purity can really get in the way of
team progress when it comes to really
what's most important, right?
And so again, I can't stress this enough,
TypeScript like many tools,
it's wonderful in many ways, right?
We saw it do a lot of good things for
us but don't forget that we
did that in a progressive way.
That was like let me help myself
out by setting my intentions and
then just picking it out
when it makes sense for me.
But you'll notice there are some times
I didn't define types either and
that's okay.
That's actually a great way
to just get your feet wet and
figure out what makes the most sense.
The moment you get caught up in
abstraction, that kind of stuff,
that's when it can just
blow up in your face.
Then, instead of shipping
useful features to customers,
you're sitting there fighting types.
And I don't know, that's probably
not the best use of our time right,
at the end of the day.
Because if you think about it,
this is what users see, right?
When they get your code,
they don't see beautiful types,
they don't see all that stuff.
That's for us, that's for us to help
them maintain and to ship faster.
But at the end of the day, it's all
about the features that we ship and
don't lose sight of that
when working on code.
With that, thank you everyone for
joining me again today.
It's been an absolute blast.
I just realized, I have some
questions I need to answer, right?
Yep, go for it.
>> Is there a litmus test to know when
it's better to migrate to TypeScript for
scaling an app for the future?
>> Great, okay, yes.
Thank you for the reminder.
Okay, so this is for Shiva.
When it comes to really thinking
about scalability of code.
Basically, in my opinion when it comes to
the scale of code, it's about the ability
of people to how quickly someone
can understand your codebase.
And that really sets apart something
that's scalable and maintainable
versus something that is basically
tricky to scale at an enterprise level.
And so TypeScript is one
of the things once again,
that if your team is ready to start
bringing that in and incorporating it and
in a way that doesn't halt
the progress of the tool chain.
Then by all means,
it certainly is useful for that.
But again, there's so many real world
scenarios where people try to migrate and
they find themselves stuck in build
chain tools, like errors constantly.
And so rather than making progress,
they're just fighting over it and
then no one wants to
touch any of the files.
And then I've to say at the end of the
day, you might be using a enterprise grade
like TypeScript but if it's hindering
progress, not a good thing at all.
So once again, it's all about
comprehension and ease of maintenance.
As long as you get your team
to feel comfortable with that,
even if you just use JSDoc, you don't
gotta use TypeScript, that works too.
So I think that's really the key thing
to focus on and not the TypeScript part.
>> Which is better for bigger projects,
Options API or Composition API?
>> Yeah, so when it comes to using Vue 3,
I do think that at the end of the day,
it's really hard to escape
from Composition API.
We'll see this a lot in the rest
of your workshop upcoming.
But because of how modular it is,
Composition API will be a part of
basically every Vue 3
project going forward.
That said, that doesn't mean that
what you're doing with Options API is
out-of-date either because there's
sometimes some components benefit from
that structure that Options API provides.
And so it's one of those things where
choose the tool that best suits
the problem that you're trying to solve,
rather than trying to be like,
I'm only gonna use this one method.
So understanding the trade-offs and
knowing your team's abilities,
that will be the key to success for
your project.
>> Is it possible to
export computed props or
methods from the setup
script into a test file?
>> Yeah so,
obviously testing is a whole thing.
But as far as I'm aware, everything
that we've done as far as types and
all this stuff should be able to
be imported into a test file so
that you can use that and
make sure everything is typed correctly.
And there's a couple key resources
out there that I'll try to add to
the resource list.
But Worthman, yeah.
So in case you haven't had a chance
to check it out, I do actually have
another workshop on Frontend Masters
called Production-Grade Vue.
Where I talk about basically different
enterprise patterns that I've seen
over the years.
And so basically, when it comes to testing
with types, again, everything that we've
done in the code should be able
to be exported and imported.
But the key thing when it comes
to testing is in my opinion is
to make sure that you
have the end-to-end test.
Cuz I know that a lot people get caught up
in the unit tests but end-to-end testing
in my opinion is the key part of
basically figuring out whether or
not your app is gonna survive or not.
And so the joke that a predecessor of mine
always said was that there are two tests I
always make sure that every app has.
And that's one, can the user login?
And two, can they pay me?
After that, everything else is optional so
something to keep in mind.
But in all seriousness when it
comes to typing these things,
everything should work as expected.
I would recommend checking Vue
test out for your unit tests.
That's really taking sort of the community
by storm as far as almost being like
the next assessor to Jest so
definitely check that out.
Great.
>> [APPLAUSE]
>> Thanks everyone.